Docs update about IngressClass & new controller-level flags (#2002)
kubernetes-sigs/aws-load-balancer-controller: docs/guide/ingress/ingress_class.md

# [IngressClass](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/#ingress-class)

Ingresses can be implemented by different controllers, often with different configuration. Each Ingress should specify a
class, a reference to an IngressClass resource that contains additional configuration including the name of the
controller that should implement the class. IngressClass resources contain an optional parameters field. This can be

> used to reference additional implementation-specific configuration for this class.

Reviewer: How about:
```suggestion
used to reference additional implementation-specific configuration for this class.
For the AWS Load Balancer controller, the implementation-specific configuration is
[IngressClassParams](#ingressclassparams) in the `elbv2.k8s.aws` API group.
```

!!!example
    - specify controller as `ingress.k8s.aws/alb` to denote Ingresses should be managed by AWS Load Balancer Controller.
    ```
    apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
    kind: IngressClass
    metadata:
      name: awesome-class
    spec:
      controller: ingress.k8s.aws/alb
    ```
    - specify additional configurations by referencing an IngressClassParams resource.
    ```
    apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
    kind: IngressClass
    metadata:
      name: awesome-class
    spec:
      controller: ingress.k8s.aws/alb
      parameters:
        apiGroup: elbv2.k8s.aws
        kind: IngressClassParams
        name: awesome-class-cfg
    ```

!!!tip "[default IngressClass](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/#default-ingress-class)"

>     You can mark a particular IngressClass as default for your cluster. Setting the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can mark a particular IngressClass as the default for your cluster. Setting the
```

Before the IngressClass resource and `ingressClassName` field were added in Kubernetes 1.18, Ingress classes were
specified with a `kubernetes.io/ingress.class` annotation on the Ingress. This annotation was never formally defined,
but was widely supported by Ingress controllers.

The newer `ingressClassName` field on Ingresses is a replacement for that annotation, but is not a direct equivalent.
While the annotation was generally used to reference the name of the Ingress controller that should implement the
Ingress, the field is a reference to an IngressClass resource that contains additional Ingress configuration, including
the name of the Ingress controller.

!!!tip "disable `kubernetes.io/ingress.class` annotation"
    In order to maintain backwards-compatibility, `kubernetes.io/ingress.class` annotation is still supported currently.
    You can enforce IngressClass resource adoption by disable the `kubernetes.io/ingress.class` annotation via [--disable-ingress-class-annotation](../../../deploy/configurations/#disable-ingress-class-annotation) controller flag.

## IngressClassParams

> IngressClassParams is a CRD specific to AWS Load Balancer Controller, which can be used along with IngressClass’s parameter field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IngressClassParams is a [CRD](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/) specific to the AWS Load Balancer Controller, which can be used along with IngressClass’s parameter field.
```

You can use IngressClassParams to enforce settings for a set of Ingresses.

!!!example
    - with scheme & ipAddressType & tags
    ```
    apiVersion: elbv2.k8s.aws/v1beta1
    kind: IngressClassParams
    metadata:
      name: awesome-class
    spec:
      scheme: internal
      ipAddressType: dualstack
      tags:
      - key: org
        value: my-org
    ```
    - with namespaceSelector
    ```
    apiVersion: elbv2.k8s.aws/v1beta1
    kind: IngressClassParams
    metadata:
      name: awesome-class
    spec:
      namespaceSelector:
        matchLabels:
          team: team-a
    ```
    - with IngressGroup
    ```
    apiVersion: elbv2.k8s.aws/v1beta1
    kind: IngressClassParams
    metadata:
      name: awesome-class
    spec:
      group:
        name: my-group
    ```

### IngressClassParams specification

#### spec.namespaceSelector

> `namespaceSelector` is an optional setting, It follows standard label selector semantics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`namespaceSelector` is an optional setting that follows general Kubernetes
[label selector](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/#label-selectors)
semantics.
```

> Cluster administrators can use `namespaceSelector` field to restrict the namespaces of Ingresses that are allowed to specify the IngressClass.

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
Cluster administrators can use the `namespaceSelector` field to restrict the namespaces of Ingresses that are allowed to specify the IngressClass.
```

1. If `namespaceSelector` specified, only Ingresses in selected namespaces can use IngressClasses with this parameter. The controller will refuse to reconcile for Ingresses that violates `namespaceSelector`.
2. If `namespaceSelector` un-specified, all Ingresses in any namespace can use IngressClasses with this parameter.

#### spec.group

`group` is an optional setting.  The only available sub-field is `group.name`.

> Cluster administrators can use `group.name` field to denote the groupName for all Ingresses belong to this IngressClass.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cluster administrators can use `group.name` field to denote the ALB ingress group for all Ingresses belong to this IngressClass. (IngressGroup is a CustomResourceDefinition specific to the AWS Load Balancer Controller)
```
?

Author: This is inaccurate. IngressGroup is not a CRD. it's sort of virtual grouping for Ingresses with same group name.

Reviewer: OK - then I recommend rewording to introduce this controller's ingress group concept and explain it's _not_ a resource.

1. If `group.name` specified, all Ingresses with this IngressClass will belong to the same IngressGroup specified and result in a single ALB.

> 2. If `group.name` un-specified, Ingresses with this IngressClass can continue to use `alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/group.name` annotation to specify IngressGroup. Ingresses belong to same IngressClass can form different IngressGroups via annotation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `group.name` is not specified, Ingresses with this IngressClass can use the older / legacy `alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/group.name` annotation to specify their IngressGroup. Ingresses that belong to the same IngressClass can form different IngressGroups via that annotation.
```

#### spec.scheme

`scheme` is an optional setting. The available options are `internet-facing` or `internal`.

> Cluster administrators can use `scheme` field to restrict the scheme for all Ingresses belong to this IngressClass.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cluster administrators can use the `scheme` field to restrict the scheme for all Ingresses that belong to this IngressClass.
```

1. If `scheme` specified, all Ingresses with this IngressClass will have the specified scheme.
2. If `scheme` un-specified, Ingresses with this IngressClass can continue to use `alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/scheme annotation` to specify scheme.

#### spec.ipAddressType

`ipAddressType` is an optional setting. The available options are `ipv4` or `dualstack`.

> Cluster administrators can use `ipAddressType` field to restrict the ipAddressType for all Ingresses belong to this IngressClass.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cluster administrators can use `ipAddressType` field to restrict the ipAddressType for all Ingresses that belong to this IngressClass.
```

1. If `ipAddressType` specified, all Ingresses with this IngressClass will have the specified ipAddressType.
2. If `ipAddressType` un-specified, Ingresses with this IngressClass can continue to use `alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/ip-address-type` annotation to specify ipAddressType.

#### spec.tags

`tags` is an optional setting.

Cluster administrators can use `tags` field to specify the custom tags for AWS resources provisioned for all Ingresses belong to this IngressClass.

> 1. If `tags` specified, AWS resources provisioned for all Ingresses with this IngressClass will have the specified tags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If `tags` is set, AWS resources provisioned for all Ingresses with this IngressClass will have the specified tags.
```

> 2. Customers can also use controller-level flag `--default-tags`  or `alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/tags` annotation to specify custom tags. These tags will be merged together based on tag-key. If same tag-key appears in multiple sources, the priority is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. You can also use controller-level flag `--default-tags`  or `alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/tags` annotation to specify custom tags. These tags will be merged together based on tag-key. If same tag-key appears in multiple sources, the priority is as follows:
```
(based on [address the reader as you](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/#address-the-reader-as-you) from the Kubernetes SIG Docs style guide).
